# Token Based Authentication

In the previous exercise, we had to sent a username and password with every request that was protected by the `auth.login_required` decorator. This is inconvenient and can be seen as a security risk even if the transport is secure HTTP, since the client application must have those credentials stored without encryption to be able to send them with these requests.

When rendering HTML pages with Flask, we had the ability to use the `login_session` object to store information about the state of the client between requests. Flask did this by creating an encrypted cookie for us that the browser could append to each HTTP request. But since our RESTful API may not always work with the browser or a client that can securely store and transmit cookies, we need another method for storing and communication credentials.

A popular solution to this problem is to create tokens. A **token** is a string that the server generates for the client that can be passed along inside an HTTP request. The idea is that the client application exchanges authentication credentials for an authentication token, and in subsequent requests just sends the token. When the server receives the token, it can then look up credentials of the user and determine whether or not it is authorized to the information it is requesting.

Tokens are usually given out with an expiration time after which they become invalid and a new token needs to be obtained. The potential damage that can be caused if a token is leaked is much smaller due to their short life span. A server can easily determine if a token is too old and decide to reject it if it doesn't view it as valid.

So how do we go about creating tokens?

A straight forward implementation is to generate a random sequence of characters of certain length that is stored with the user and the password in the database. Possibly with an expiration date as well.

<table style='margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;'>
    <tr>
        <th colspan=2 style='text-align:center'>User</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan=1 style='text-align:right'>id</td>
        <td colspan=1>24</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan=1 style='text-align:right'>email</td>
        <td colspan=1>lorenzo@udacity.com</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan=1 style='text-align:right'>token</td>
        <td colspan=1>aX32f15cd!802</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td colspan=1 style='text-align:right'>expiry</td>
        <td colspan=1>6pm PST</td>
    </tr>
</table>

The token then becomes sort of a plain text password in that it can easily be verified with a string comparison plus a check of its expiration date. A more elaborate implementation that requires no server side storage is to use a cryptographically signed message as a token. This has the advantage that the information related to the token, namely the user for which the token was generated, is encoded in the token itself and protected against tampering with a strong cryptographic signature.

Flask uses a similar approach to write secure cookies. This implementation is based on a package called `itsdangerous`. Next, we'll use the `itsdangerous` library as we take on adding token generation and verification to our user model.
