# Developer Friendly Documentation

#### Easy to navigate
In addition to coding APIs that are functional and high performing, documentation should be easy to navigate, and aesthetically pleasing. If your documentation looks like classified ads from a newspaper, developers are not going to be eager to navigate through it.

Let's take a look at **[Twilio's documentation](https://www.twilio.com/docs)** for using their API. Twilio has this overview page, which easily guides developers to the major aspects of their API without getting lost in the documentation.

#### Hello World documentation
Some API providers, like Udacity, for instance, use what we call Hello World documentation, containing boiler plate code for using their APIs quickly.

#### FAQs
Having a section for frequently asked questions, like the Google Maps API, makes it easy for developers to quickly get answers to their most common questions. In some situations, a good FAQ section can be just as informative as the original documentation, since it addresses constraints and common corner cases of a system.

#### Playgrounds and sandboxes
Playgrounds and sandboxes are also great tool sets many API providers are adding to their documentation. Developers can test out API endpoints by executing sample API requests directly on the providers web site.

#### Fun & interactive experience

When developing your own APIs, consider taking time to make fun, interactive and developer-friendly documentation in order to gain popularity amongst your users.
